--- 
layout: post 
name: usc-uav 
title: Setup and Flight Testing - Day 1 - USC UAV Competition 
time: 2013-05-03 23:35:00.000000000 -06:00 
excerpt: "The morning today was mostly dedicated to assembly and preparation of systems, our safety briefing, and our systems presentation. The preparation for the presentation was done in a rush, and we did not go over the technical details of our systems and our team's project management as much as we would have liked."
author:
    name: UAARG
---

The morning today was mostly dedicated to assembly and preparation of systems,
our safety briefing, and our systems presentation. The preparation for the
presentation was done in a rush, and we did not go over the technical details
of our systems and our team's project management as much as we would have
liked.

  

We ran into a host of unexpected issues almost as soon as we finished
assembling our plane and avionics box; as a result, it took a good part of the
day to successfully receive and transmit data from the plane and demonstrate
our failsafes in order to pass our flight readiness reviews and be cleared for
flight tests. First, when we went to do our flight readiness review, none of
our kill switches worked – because the lack of GPS was already killing the
plane, but we didn't realize this until later. Then there was a bad connection
in the IMU followed by a mysterious issue with one of the power supplies
within the plane cutting out. We don't know yet whether this was a short or
some other cause, because when we disassembled the avionics box to replace the
power supply, it started working again and has been fine since.

  

Once we got to the field, we were able to perform a calibration of our IMU, a
demonstration of our failsafes, and a successful manual flight with
transmission of telemetry data. The flight, however, was not smooth; the
plane's ascent was choppy, and the pilot (Cameron was barely able to control
it). After three failed landing attempts – one where the plane nearly exited
the flight area while at only 10 m, we eventually landed the plane with no
damage. We determined that the cause of this brutal flight was twofold: the
deflection of the elevator and aileron control surfaces was much too too high
(the deflections in these reached their maximums at only 50% input), and the
COG was a little bit tail-heavy. We were easily able to fix both of these
issues and should be able to fly properly tomorrow.

  

Work on imaging systems has also been encountering numerous issues, including
problems with wi-fi connection of the imaging computer to the PandaBoard,
offsets returned by ground imaging target selection algorithm too large to be
reasonable, and issues with loading images and data from watched directories.
As we now have basic flight functionality, we plan to focus most of our work
tomorrow on imaging.  
  
  
Pictures and Video Below...  
  
  

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-l3bZsE5RBoc/UYVyPHGkHTI/AAAAAAAAAFc/vhnKl0dqUV
M/s640/P5030008.JPG) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-l3bZsE5RBoc/UYVyPHGkHTI/AAAAA
AAAAFc/vhnKl0dqUVM/s1600/P5030008.JPG)

  

  

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-xy4oX1RX7KQ/UYVyQTli6eI/AAAAAAAAAFk/E36TXdRbEF
U/s640/P5030010.JPG) ](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-xy4oX1RX7KQ/UYVyQTli6eI/AAAAA
AAAAFk/E36TXdRbEFU/s1600/P5030010.JPG)

  

  

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-4rCJfPKLrP8/UYVySa5nalI/AAAAAAAAAFs/N-3_RVnMW9
c/s640/P5030032.JPG) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-4rCJfPKLrP8/UYVySa5nalI/AAAAA
AAAAFs/N-3_RVnMW9c/s1600/P5030032.JPG)

  

[ ![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-qlbZHY7NBTs/UYVyThrvSnI/AAAAAAAAAF0/IW4T2qEA4J
k/s640/P5030033.JPG) ](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-qlbZHY7NBTs/UYVyThrvSnI/AAAAA
AAAAF0/IW4T2qEA4Jk/s1600/P5030033.JPG)

  

  

  
  

