--- 
layout: post 
name: first-post-first-meeting-and-preview-of 
title: First post, first meeting, and a preview of what's ahead 
time: 2013-01-22 20:03:00.000000000 -07:00 
excerpt: "Welcome to the new 2013 UAARG blog! Last Tuesday, we had our first meeting of the new year, in which we discussed work that went on over the holiday break and looked ahead at the final months of work before competition in May.  
"
author:
    name: UAARG
---  

Welcome to the new 2013 UAARG blog! Last Tuesday, we had our first meeting of
the new year, in which we discussed work that went on over the holiday break
and looked ahead at the final months of work before competition in May.  
  

We reached one of our major goals over the holiday season: completing the
Competition Paper for the Unmanned Systems Canada Unmanned Air Vehicle Student
Competition, the first of our two major competitions this year. This paper is
meant to be a document that outlines the design process of the aircraft and
describes its major components and systems, from physical construction and
flight to communications and imaging. The paper is also judged toward our
final score in the competition, so finishing it was a very large milestone, as
well as a large relief, for the team.

  

The second major goal reached over the holidays was the completion of the
range testing for the communications systems of the aircraft. Several
different wireless links are required for both controlled and autonomous
flight, as well as transmission of images from the aircraft. The entire system
was taken outdoors under conditions similar to those at competition, and the
range and capacity of each of the wireless links were tested. Though there are
still some problems with communications, the majority of the systems are
performing as expected.

  

  

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-R_n04UyK-
yE/UP9PHrevPuI/AAAAAAAAAAs/3ldhmrdXhMU/s1600/IMG_20130105_134943.jpg)
](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-R_n04UyK-
yE/UP9PHrevPuI/AAAAAAAAAAs/3ldhmrdXhMU/s1600/IMG_20130105_134943.jpg)

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-6nrCRC74u78/UP9PD-
gg2tI/AAAAAAAAAAk/3I1IyclqHJ4/s1600/IMG_20130105_144937.jpg)
](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-6nrCRC74u78/UP9PD-
gg2tI/AAAAAAAAAAk/3I1IyclqHJ4/s1600/IMG_20130105_144937.jpg)

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/--2gxIfcTL3w/UP9PJKsOUbI/AAAAAAAAAA4/IiRDqMaqdE
Y/s1600/IMG_20130105_144914.jpg) ](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/--2gxIfcTL3w/UP9PJ
KsOUbI/AAAAAAAAAA4/IiRDqMaqdEY/s1600/IMG_20130105_144914.jpg)

Some photos from the outdoor range testing, including a graph of successful
signal transmission

There is still, however, quite a list of items to be completed in the weeks
ahead, one of which is flight testing of foam model airplanes so that R/C
pilots can be trained for competition. This is a priority at present because
of the lack of flight training that the pilots have received so far (flight
simulators are fun but no substitute), and we’re going to find an indoor
flying field appropriate for this purpose next. We are also working towards
having a functional, testable version of the ground station imaging system in
a few weeks’ time.

  

[ ![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-V20pxL7F9Ww/UP9R5qBK3HI/AAAAAAAAABM/-Sj_iuDICP
c/s1600/2013-01-22+18.32.34.jpg) ](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-V20pxL7F9Ww/UP9R5
qBK3HI/AAAAAAAAABM/-Sj_iuDICPc/s1600/2013-01-22+18.32.34.jpg)

  

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-zg9ZkMExNO4/UP9R6PXgy_I/AAAAAAAAABU/5azrZlKNn8
g/s1600/IMG_20130122_185623.jpg) ](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-zg9ZkMExNO4/UP9R6
PXgy_I/AAAAAAAAABU/5azrZlKNn8g/s1600/IMG_20130122_185623.jpg)

A few shots of the foam airplanes under construction for pilot training

To stay on track in the meantime, we have set several internal deadlines for
the completion and testing of major systems before competition. We are also
piloting the idea of short presentations by one of the subgroups (airframe,
autopilot, imaging, etc.) at the beginning of each meeting; these are meant to
familiarize members with all aspects of the plane and its systems, as well as
update on progress in subgroups. Stay tuned for updates on the blog as we gear
up for the competition season!

  

