---
layout: post
name: day-3-usc-uav
title: Competition Flight 2 - Day 3 - USC UAV Competition 
time: 2013-05-06 16:38:00.000000000 -06:00 
excerpt: "This morning, we were able to get out onto the field right away and perform a range test. Soon afterwards, we began our second competition flight."
author:
    name: UAARG
---

This morning, we were able to get out onto the field right away and perform a
range test. Soon afterwards, we began our second competition flight. We
brought a second router for this flight in order to set up a connection to a
computer that would display the GCS to the pilot, in an attempt to perform
stabilized flight out of the line of sight and thereby expand our search area.
The plane's takeoff and flight were smooth, and the radio and telemetry links
to the plane remained connected throughout.

  

[ ![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-_PQtLWAmY2I/UYgt7AMx4II/AAAAAAAAAGw/VAmeaHt4Id
k/s1600/blogp1.jpg) ](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-_PQtLWAmY2I/UYgt7AMx4II/AAAAAA
AAAGw/VAmeaHt4Idk/s1600/blogp1.jpg)

Cameron monitoring the plane down the runway, with the pilot GCS laptop in
front

  

[  
](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-wAaa9RlDcpU/UYguaxwgDdI/AAAAAAAAAG4/3e-
QB_V31E4/s1600/blogp2.jpg)

However, almost immediately after takeoff, we noticed that the wi-fi
connection between the Pandaboard and the ground imaging laptop was extremely
weak, and at one point, even disconnected entirely. This meant that we were
only able to wirelessly transfer the first few photos taken by the plane. We
continued with the flight because it was still possible to land and make a
direct wired connection afterwards to transfer the images taken. A few of us
hypothesized that there was some interference between the two routers, but it
was only after the plane landed that we discovered that the new router was
using the _ exact same frequency _ as the router used for the imaging  despite
being set to auto select an unused frequency.

  

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-wAaa9RlDcpU/UYguaxwgDdI/AAAAAAAAAG8/cs8iBFYoD1
g/s1600/blogp2.jpg) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-wAaa9RlDcpU/UYguaxwgDdI/AAAAAA
AAAG8/cs8iBFYoD1g/s1600/blogp2.jpg)

Looking at the targets at the imaging station

  

Despite this, we were still able to get all the images that the plane took.
Here are a few:

  

[ ![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-U7TwmsXP0tQ/UYgswg9kk0I/AAAAAAAAAGo/OjvLR9HUsS
4/s1600/blogp3.jpg) ](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-U7TwmsXP0tQ/UYgswg9kk0I/AAAAAA
AAAGo/OjvLR9HUsS4/s1600/blogp3.jpg)

[ ![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-ZrN4_wKeMJ4/UYgu14BCDVI/AAAAAAAAAHE/sUdWJaMTp3
U/s1600/blogp4.jpg) ](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-ZrN4_wKeMJ4/UYgu14BCDVI/AAAAAA
AAAHE/sUdWJaMTp3U/s1600/blogp4.jpg)

  

  

As you can see, there was no possibility of discerning targets from any of
these blurry photos. This was because we had made another critical mistake: we
had taken out the working camera used for yesterday's flight and replaced it
with the other identical but unfocused camera. Therefore, during this flight,
we were unable to identify any targets.  With the wind picking up and dark
clouds approaching, competition flights ended during the morning, and with
that went our last chance to improve on yesterday's score.

  

The afternoon's activities were a welcome break. Most of this time was taken
up by the Mini-expo, which was a chance for all of the teams to set up their
systems to show to the public, sponsors, and other competitors, and to go
around and talk to the other teams. Cameron tried to add telemetry over Wi-Fi
functionality to the Panda Board in order to show a proper demo of his
redundant link system, but there were problems setting it up. Nevertheless, we
were able to gather some interesting information about the other teams'
operations. We also got a chance to look inside the unmanned aircraft MISKAM
at its systems.

  

After packing up our aircraft and other supplies, we headed to the final
banquet for acknowledgments, congratulations, and finally the announcement of
results. All of the teams that were able to get airborne were also able to get
target information. It turned out for us that out of the three targets we
identified the previous day, only two were correctly georeferenced. Every
other team obtained more targets than we did, mainly by virtue of performing
more than one flight with collection of target data. It seemed that correctly
obtaining GPS coordinates was a problem for many teams; even the top team,
VAMUDeS, had incorrect GPS information for about a third of their 30 targets.
We were glad to still receive a $500 cash prize; we also obtained files with
the correct target information and locations.

  

One bonus during this trip was our reception of media coverage. A reporter
from Radio-Canada came to the airport yesterday to do a news story on the
competition, and she interviewed- us about our systems and out performance
during our first flight. Our team ended up receiving the majority of the
coverage of the news story; a link to it can be found [ here ](http://www
.radio-canada.ca/regions/saguenay-lac/2013/05/04/004-drone-competition-
universitaire-alma.shtml) .

  

[ ![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-4m1biray2KY/UYgsdrKwEuI/AAAAAAAAAGg/kCLTHyERX5
M/s1600/IMG_0448.JPG) ](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-4m1biray2KY/UYgsdrKwEuI/AAAA
AAAAAGg/kCLTHyERX5M/s1600/IMG_0448.JPG)

Demonstrating our ground control station to the RDI reporters

  

  

Alma was an incredibly hospitable place, and we had a lot of fun during the
competition despite encountering some pretty major obstacles. There are many
things for us to reflect on for the next competition, and an enormous list of
things for us to work on, including a better systems presentation, major fixes
for the ground imaging software, and more detailed pre-flight checklists. This
Thursday, we will be having a meeting at which we can work on these and plan
the next one and a half months until the AUVSI competition. Stay tuned for
more updates then.

  

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-3awgW3f39Uw/UYgrxEffDsI/AAAAAAAAAGY/7bdzj71LQR
I/s1600/IMG_0945.JPG) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-3awgW3f39Uw/UYgrxEffDsI/AAAA
AAAAAGY/7bdzj71LQRI/s1600/IMG_0945.JPG)

L to R: Cindy Xiao, Arshad Husain, Sheldon Marquis, Cameron Lee, Emmanuel
Odeke

  

