--- 
layout: post 
name: canadian-competition-after-lovely 
title: Canadian Competition After a Lovely Little Dip 
time: 2014-05-01 18:32:00.000000000 06:00 
excerpt: "So after a very lengthy period of not posting, it is time for Canadian Competition again. Right now we are on our way to Southport, Manitoba, rocking to skipping music tracks and testing electrical components. So why are we testing components, well yesterday we decided to let the plane take a dip at the pond adjacent to our flying field."
author:
    name: UAARG
---  

So after a very lengthy period of not posting, it is time for Canadian
Competition again. Right now we are on our way to Southport, Manitoba, rocking
to skipping music tracks and testing electrical components. So why are we
testing components, well yesterday we decided to let the plane take a dip at
the pond adjacent to our flying field.

[ ![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-tQGKtS5-m6g/U2LnVe-p7pI/AAAAAAAAAOU/PRyzpM6u7x
g/s1600/lRpg0GdnpHArknGAKjeGTiGtdKk7QWgO2wwusmnrIWA.jpg)
](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-tQGKtS5-m6g/U2LnVe-p7pI/AAAAAAAAAOU/PRyzpM6u7xg/s1
600/lRpg0GdnpHArknGAKjeGTiGtdKk7QWgO2wwusmnrIWA.jpg)

Rijesh and Mark pulling the plane out of the pond

It was a fun adventure pulling this fellow out of the lake. We were
experiencing intermittent Radio Control(RC) loss while in the air. Some on
ground range testing would have been wise, but fortune favours the bold.
Apparently not. The plane lost RC and crashed into the lake. Our Airframe is
in fairly decent shape. The landing gear is a goner but the plane took the
crash well. Our Avionics box filled with itself up with water. We have two
switching voltage regulators that were built as a capstone project, and
thankfully those shorted and blew up fairly quickly. Our telemetry radio has a
few scorch marks on it, so it is probably pushing up daisies. Apart from that
the rest of the electronics seem fine. Contrary to popular belief water isn’t
that extensively damaging to circuitry. As long as the water is not filled
with excessive dissolved solvents the water actually acts as an insulator.  
  

Thanks to Mark’s steadfast work, we have a second airframe ready to go. We
should be able to remake the Avionics box, with a few adjustments to
accommodate a new radio and possibly and new autopilot board. Our current
Autopilot board uses something called a PPM encoder which takes the signals
from all the channels of the RC receiver and converts it into a single pulse
signal. If this is fried we may or may not decide to transition to a Lisa/M 2
autopilot board. This board has a built in receiver. Using this board will
require us to reconfigure our autopilot software. Since we are not using any
autopilot stabilized flight, this would not actually benefit us. At this
competition, however, we were only planning on flying the plane via RC. The
original autopilot board without the ppm encoder will still allow us to fly,
take photos, geo-reference images, and monitor the plane’s telemetry.



  

Looking back it seems like our intermittent RC issues may have been due to a
metal cowl we added to the plane. We have eliminated faulty hardware and brown
outs as possible causes.

  

This year, we are bringing a second team to the competition – Team Murphy.
They’re a subgroup of UAARG composed of fourth year students designing a small
lightweight UAV for their capstone project.      All fourth year engineering
students take part in a yearlong project, where they apply what they have
learned from a variety of their courses.    They had some very promising
results in there test flight yesterday. They managed to retrieve very clear
images and find some targets we set up on the ground, giving some good data
for the georeferencing part of their system.

  

The van was just now filled with everyone on a laptop coding and working away
on something or another, save the driver.

  

