--- 
layout: post 
name: canadian-competition-day-3 
title: Canadian Competition, Day 3 
time: 2014-05-03 19:37:00.000000000 -06:00 
excerpt: "With a pretty good night of sleep behind us, we trekked out to the pits."
author:
    name: UAARG
--- 

With a pretty good night of sleep behind us, we trekked out to the pits. We were
pretty burnt out the night before, but we had discovered a couple of problems:
our wireless router was not turning on inside our hastily-reconstructed
avionics box, and we had lost the SD card for the Pandaboard, taking all of
our files with it.  
  
We took a look at the wireless router in the morning, and soon found out that
some of the voltage regulators we installed on the outside of the avionics box
were burning hot. We soon found that our router was shorting up against our
metal box, explaining our issues. We also had a fun scavenger hunt for the
Pandaboard SD card, but this turned up nothing.  
  
Our first flight time came up a bit sooner than we expected. We had some
trouble installing our avionics box inside the plane and so carved away a good
10 minutes of our 45-minute flight time. Once we were there, the first
priority was to get an R/C flight in, since the system hadn't left the ground
since the crash.  
  
Unfortunately, we missed the same requirement this time that we did yesterday
during our first Flight Readiness go-around: the throttle would not turn off
if we lost the R/C link. As our flight time rolled on, we began to have more
inexplicable issues: we had a weak R/C link, our telemetry link died, etc. Our
time passed, and the plane hadn't left the ground.  
  
We were lucky enough to have Julien from VAMUdeS, who were running a TWOG and
PPM encoder system set up for their autopilot (just like us) help us out with
the last failsafe condition; once we had that and tested it, our plane was
ready to go. We were ready, but the weather wasn't: it started snowing
outside, delaying our second flight to tomorrow.  
  
There was plenty of stuff to work on once we got back: going out and buying
parts, restoring a backup of the Pandaboard's card, replacing our voltage
regulators, debugging the imaging software, etc. Mostly, though, it was a lot
of sitting around and waiting. Here's some pics of that:  
  

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-fGM-MZpQWhE/U2WYzpYLNsI/AAAAAAAAAPs/tI2S95hyYR
Q/s1600/WP_20140503_18_05_56_Pro.jpg) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-fGM-MZpQWhE/
U2WYzpYLNsI/AAAAAAAAAPs/tI2S95hyYRQ/s1600/WP_20140503_18_05_56_Pro.jpg)

Cindy Xiao

  
  

[ ![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-Um44swkN14A/U2WYyX_yalI/AAAAAAAAAPk/WUK_q9-94i
k/s1600/WP_20140503_18_06_15_Pro.jpg) ](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-Um44swkN14A/
U2WYyX_yalI/AAAAAAAAAPk/WUK_q9-94ik/s1600/WP_20140503_18_06_15_Pro.jpg)

Arshad Husain

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-XQFr_-
m6Quc/U2WYxeLHInI/AAAAAAAAAPg/F0LBbmroHvk/s1600/WP_20140503_18_06_23_Pro.jpg)
](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-XQFr_-
m6Quc/U2WYxeLHInI/AAAAAAAAAPg/F0LBbmroHvk/s1600/WP_20140503_18_06_23_Pro.jpg)

Andrew Jowsey

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-FHOoRLatH74/U2WY06QYVWI/AAAAAAAAAP4/k3s9te2oJ8
Y/s1600/WP_20140503_18_06_39_Pro.jpg) ](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-FHOoRLatH74/
U2WY06QYVWI/AAAAAAAAAP4/k3s9te2oJ8Y/s1600/WP_20140503_18_06_39_Pro.jpg)

Mark Pollock

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-lCkBw_o2SYE/U2WY1x4llnI/AAAAAAAAAP8/BzPcSqP93-
I/s1600/WP_20140503_18_07_03_Pro.jpg) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-lCkBw_o2SYE/
U2WY1x4llnI/AAAAAAAAAP8/BzPcSqP93-I/s1600/WP_20140503_18_07_03_Pro.jpg)

Rijesh Augustine

On the Team Murphy side, they were out bright and early this morning - even
more so than expected because of a crash from UVictoria beforehand. Because of
a configuration mix-up, they weren't able to get any pictures from their
flight today. However, that was a quick fix, and the rest of their system was
working perfectly well - lots of time to kill. Several hours of tomfoolery
later, they made this:  
  

[ ![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-cloYjgX9kJI/U2WYISuJnoI/AAAAAAAAAPY/Y-f55N8MAc
A/s1600/Screen+Shot+2014-05-03+at+7.08.52+PM.png) ](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-
cloYjgX9kJI/U2WYISuJnoI/AAAAAAAAAPY/Y-f55N8MAcA/s1600/Screen+Shot+2014-05-03+a
t+7.08.52+PM.png)

Flight path of Team Murphy's plane and locations of images they took

  
  
This is data of the test flight they did yesterday. The yellow pins are the
locations of the images taken during the flight, and the red path is the
flight of the plane.  
  
Overall, both teams are in really good spirits. Team Murphy has their system
entirely functional, Team UAARG is finally ready to fly. In addition to this,
we got to travel around a lot to the other teams' pits to learn more about
their systems and share our woes. Interestingly, there seems to be very heavy
sponsorship of a lot of teams this year, with loads of donated commercial
hardware and imaging software making its way into teams' systems. No matter
what the system, though, everyone had issues with the wind or their RF links
or their failsafes - it ended up being only 4 of 11 teams that actually flew
today.  
  
Tonight's our free evening for hanging out. We're going to hang out, rest up,
and get ready for the last day!  
  

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-9X3naFt9E74/U2WXviUxy1I/AAAAAAAAAPM/WjcvC_jMw9
Q/s1600/2014-05-03+19.18.07.jpg) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-9X3naFt9E74/U2WXv
iUxy1I/AAAAAAAAAPM/WjcvC_jMw9Q/s1600/2014-05-03+19.18.07.jpg)

Team Murphy. Paul doesn't know how to feel about this.

  

