--- 
layout: post 
name: canadian-competition-day-2 
title: Canadian Competition Day 2 
time: 2014-05-02 20:19:00.000000000 -06:00 
excerpt: "Day 2 of our competition."
author:
    name: UAARG
---

Day 2 of our competition.

[ ![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-iE2mzHSlMyQ/U2REy5M4eeI/AAAAAAAAAO0/X5iTxdGpL2
s/s1600/WP_20140502_17_15_29_Pro.jpg) ](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-iE2mzHSlMyQ/
U2REy5M4eeI/AAAAAAAAAO0/X5iTxdGpL2s/s1600/WP_20140502_17_15_29_Pro.jpg)



We arrived safely last night/this morning at 1:00am. The ride was filled with
coding, learning and all-around competition preparation. As per our previous
blog post, you may be aware that we had a few issues with our airframe,
specifically the part when we decided to take it for a dip. Some quick
executive decisions were made to purchase replacement parts and our entire lab
was brought along with us to Manitoba. So at 1:00am there we were setting up
our lab in one of the rooms. Exhibit A.

[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-6nOR6KMOSAE/U2RDirwJv8I/AAAAAAAAAOk/Nr-
DB32a9Ww/s1600/WP_20140502_03_02_39_Pro.jpg)
](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-6nOR6KMOSAE/U2RDirwJv8I/AAAAAAAAAOk/Nr-
DB32a9Ww/s1600/WP_20140502_03_02_39_Pro.jpg)

  
    



Busy away. Slowly one by one we fell and gave in to sleep. The majority of
Team UAARG getting less than an hour of sleep. Going to bed a 6:00 and waking
up at 7:00. Later this morning, the one time you can say that, we got up and
presented our project proposal. At this competition, we are “contracted” to
perform aerial surveillance, georeference targets, and calculate areas. We
each spoke a bit about our respective fields with Cindy giving a general idea
of why they should choose us as opposed to our competition. Following that we
finished our final rewiring. At this point we were in a state where we could
successfully capture images and tag them with telemetry data. The competition
has a Flight Readiness Review(FRR). Basically a test we have to pass that
ensures we have proper safety features present. At this point we should
theoretically have passed the FRR but would have done so in a very round about
way. Instead we decided to perform additional modifications to take the system
to the very same level as the pre-crash plane. And that is just what we did.
The first time the judges came to see our test we asked them to give us an
extension, which they graciously gave. The second time the judges came by we
thought we had everything configured correctly, but missed a requirement.
Finally a third time we went out and passed the test with flying colours. Just
on the nick of time as well. We performed a quick range test and noticed we
were not receiving the same poor reception. It seems like our crash was caused
by the metal cowl we had installed on the previous plane.

All in all though of the 11 teams only 2 teams actually flew today. UAARG did
not manage to take our plane up for a test flight, but we were capable to do
so. Alas we readied our plane 15 minutes too late.

From two days ago we had a drenched box full of electronics and now we have
rebuilt the plane.



[ ![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-NcD-JsZlPNQ/U2RH0c7iluI/AAAAAAAAAPA/58TM5tdsAo
4/s1600/WP_20140502_17_14_51_Pro.jpg) ](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-NcD-JsZlPNQ/
U2RH0c7iluI/AAAAAAAAAPA/58TM5tdsAo4/s1600/WP_20140502_17_14_51_Pro.jpg)

  

“The big job was coming together as team, and you guys did that” – Joseph
Patton



Of the two teams that actually flew today, one was Team Murphy. Their flight
was welcomed with applause. It was very heavy winds and basic flight control
was very difficult. Thankfully they made it down in one piece. Murphy
retrieved some very good images from this flight and look very prepared for
the official competition. They also received two standing ovations for
Rijesh's piloting, mostly because there were no seats. But still a standing
ovation.

